Who have a chance, one day, to rework on a project that he have started 25 year ago !!!

During the COVID19 lockdown, I took time to sort the files on my NAS (kind of things you never do in usual situation) and I discover the source of my second year of university project.

I'm remember that this project occupied a great part of my mind for about half of the year 1996 (yes, it was previous century).
How to find a solution to the problem was an obsession and to be honest probably on of my first failure in coding.

The professor in charge of language C initiation course proposed few subjects of project and I was very happy to got the one relating to Solitaire.
The purpose was to code a small program that could play and follow some instructions like keep the pawn in the middle of the board to not lose too fast.
It was interresting way to introduce coding in C language, I still thinking that was a very good subject but a little bit complex for introcution in coding.
And, I don't know exactly when I changing myself the subject to programing a game that will prevent you when you cannot win anymore.
This will need to computated all the possible winning board and complexify a lot the subject...

After many tries, I had found an efficient way to store the board positions and test the moves.
I was convinced that the solution was close !
But the main problem still revolved around the low memory capacity of the computer 25 years ago.
I'm remembering that I had coded soo many different collection design patterns without find a efficient one for my problem.

It was a bit frustrating for me at this time. I remember me, spending many evening in the lab of the university.
I was enjoying few appetie of my fellow for computer science that was permitted me to use 10 computers in parralal trying to achieve computation of the problem.
Everytime, it was a complete failure, but it is still great memory for me ... university have few computers and it was not permitted to open session on different computer.
I was afraid to meet a teacher or one of the students in charge of the computer room would report me.

Anyway, when I'm reading this code today, I'm realizing that the code quality was very poor (I really like too much global vatiable and have a very usage of the recurrency) with few very few commentaries.
But, some of the idea behind the code like the coding og the board or the management of the symetry was very exacting.

It's why I spent few hours to code a very simple storage of the board using flags table of bit just for fun (One of the idea that I got but that was impossible implement).
When I started the generation algorithm to compute winning table and the prog print me computation finish after on 33 secondes, I thinked that i have a problem somewhere ...
I double-checked everything and finally admitted that something I had been waiting for so many hours behind the computer screen, today, only took half a minute to be finished on my less powerful computer (a simple Chromebook). 

I litle shocked, I have decided to invest few day of work to code the interface as I was imagine it 25 years ago.

By the way, I would like to thank the guys who coded "ncurses" that simplify a lot the development of this last part.

I post the result on GitHub considering subject is now closed on my side, but if someone could make something else with that I will be happy to reply question.

Happy hack !



